docs/source/index.md, before:

# WallGoCollision documentation

```{toctree}
:hidden:
:caption: WallGoCollisions
:maxdepth: 3
install.md
physics.md
quickstart.md
integration.md
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:
:caption: Development
:maxdepth: 3
contact.md
license.md
```

[**WallGoCollision**](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGoCollision) is a scientific library for computing Boltzmann collision integrals for use with the Python package [**WallGo**](https://wallgo.readthedocs.io). The library is written in C++17 and can be compiled as a Python module for seamless interoperation with WallGo. Collision integrations are typically by far the most computationally intensive part of the **WallGo** wall velocity pipeline. **WallGoCollision** performs these integrations using native C++, allowing for performance optimizations that would not be possible in a pure Python package.

:::{important}
[**WallGoCollision**](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGoCollision) is still in beta and may undergo large changes without notice. Use with care.
:::

## What it does

The purpose of **WallGoCollision** is to compute integrals of form

$$
\mathcal{C}_a[\delta f] \propto \sum_{bcd} \int \frac{d^3\mathbf{p}_2 d^3\mathbf{p}_3 d^3\mathbf{p}_4}{E_2 E_3 E_4} \delta^4(p_1 + p_2 - p_3 - p_4) |M_{ab \rightarrow cd}(p_1, p_2; p_3, p_4)|^2 \mathcal{P}_{ab \rightarrow cd}[\delta f],
$$

appearing in the collision operator of the relativistic Boltzmann equation for particle species $a$. **WallGo**, and **WallGoCollision** by extension, uses the spectral approach of Cline & Laurent {footcite}`Laurent:2022jrs` to Boltzmann integration, meaning the integrals must be evaluated on a 4D grid of momenta and suitable basis polynomials. The integrations are performed using importance-sampled Monte Carlo. Integrals on different grid points are independent and trivially computable in parallel. We support OpenMP for parallel evaluation. Currently **WallGoCollision** is restricted to the linearized version of collision integrals. See [the physics page](./physics.md) for more details on the physics.

The user must provide relevant particle content for their model, matrix elements $M_{ab \rightarrow cd}$ of their choice in a symbolic form, and numerical values for model parameters appearing in the matrix elements. These
can be computed automatically using the [WallGoMatrix](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGoMatrix) package. To get started, see [the quickstart page](./quickstart.md), [code examples in C++](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGoCollision/tree/main/examples) or [code examples using the Python interface on **WallGo** repo](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGo/tree/main/Models).


## Current limitations

- Only 2-to-2 collision processes are supported.

- All physics parameters that appear in the matrix elements must be constant, floating point valued numbers. Dimensionful parameters must be given in units of the temperature (ie. **WallGoCollision** works in units of $T=1$). The limitation here is that parameters that vary along the momentum/position grid are not supported.

Commit message:

Updates to docs (fixed) (#17)
* Took changes from DocsUpdateV1 branch, but dropped merge mess

* Update physics.md with ab index on collision tensor

---------

Co-authored-by: jorindevandevis <132442353+jorindevandevis@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/index.md, after:

# WallGoCollision documentation

```{toctree}
:hidden:
:caption: WallGoCollisions
:maxdepth: 3
install.md
physics.md
quickstart.md
integration.md
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:
:caption: Development
:maxdepth: 3
contact.md
license.md
```

[**WallGoCollision**](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGoCollision) is a scientific library for computing Boltzmann collision integrals for use with the Python package [**WallGo**](https://wallgo.readthedocs.io). The library is written in C++17 and can be compiled as a Python module for seamless interoperation with **WallGo**. Collision integrations are typically by far the most computationally intensive part of the **WallGo** wall velocity pipeline. **WallGoCollision** performs these integrations using native C++, allowing for performance optimizations that would not be possible in a pure Python package.

## What it does

The purpose of **WallGoCollision** is to compute integrals of the form

$$
\mathcal{C}_a[\delta f] \propto \sum_{bcd} \int \frac{d^3\mathbf{p}_2 d^3\mathbf{p}_3 d^3\mathbf{p}_4}{E_2 E_3 E_4} \delta^4(p_1 + p_2 - p_3 - p_4) |M_{ab \rightarrow cd}(p_1, p_2; p_3, p_4)|^2 \mathcal{P}_{ab \rightarrow cd}[\delta f],
$$

appearing in the collision operator of the relativistic Boltzmann equation for particle species $a$. **WallGo**, and **WallGoCollision** by extension, uses the spectral approach of Cline & Laurent {footcite}`Laurent:2022jrs` to Boltzmann integration, meaning the integrals must be evaluated on a 4D grid of momenta and suitable basis polynomials. The integrations are performed using importance-sampled Monte Carlo. Integrals on different grid points are independent and trivially computable in parallel. We support OpenMP for parallel evaluation. Currently **WallGoCollision** is restricted to the linearized version of collision integrals. See [the physics page](./physics.md) for more details on the physics.

The user must provide relevant particle content for their model, matrix elements $M_{ab \rightarrow cd}$ of their choice in a symbolic form, and numerical values for model parameters appearing in the matrix elements. These
can be computed automatically using the [WallGoMatrix](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGoMatrix) package. To get started, see [the quickstart page](./quickstart.md), [code examples in C++](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGoCollision/tree/main/examples) or [code examples using the Python interface on **WallGo** repo](https://github.com/Wall-Go/WallGo/tree/main/Models).


## Current limitations

- Only 2-to-2 collision processes are supported.

-  All momentum dependence in the matrix elements must be expressed in terms of the Mandelstam variables $s,t$ and $u$.

- All physics parameters that appear in the matrix elements must be constant, floating point valued numbers. Dimensionful parameters must be given in units of the temperature (ie. **WallGoCollision** works in units of $T=1$). The limitation here is that parameters that vary along the momentum/position grid are not supported.
